Python is a powerful fast and easy to learn computer programming language that you've probably heard
of but you might be wondering why we're learning a new language at this point in the course we already
know how to do client side programming with javascript and we know how to do service type programming
with HP.
Why would we want to learn new languages.
Well my reasons are conveniently summarized in this blog post on scaled up dot com.
Now Python is of course not your first programming language because you've already learnt several.
So the fact that it's easy to learn is a bonus but not critical for you because you're already fairly
comfortable with different programming languages.
But this is the real reason that I want to teach you some Python.
At the end of the complete web developer of course and that's that Python is a great stepping stone
language.
The syntax that it has is very similar to a number of key programming languages that are likely to encounter
as a web developer.
So learning a little bit of Python will make learning languages like Swift Ruby or Perl much easier.
It's also your stepping stone in another way because Python can be run directly on a Raspberry Pi or
any one of the several tiny and very cheaply available computers out there.
So if you want to start working with the to build things like radios cameras and even pet feeders then
Python is going to enable you to do that.
The Internet of Things is very much an up part of technology and Python will enable you to be part of
that.
Secondly it's definitely the case that pipe developers are more and more in demand and although HP is
very much still the most widely used programming language it's not on the increase.
Whereas Python very much is.
And finally as well as Python being a great link on things like Raspberry Pi You can use it on the web
and in fact it forms the basis of the popular web framework Django which for the foundation of massive
sites like Pinterest the New York Times and Instagram.
So we're really just going to scratch the surface of Python.
But I want you to know how it works so that you can be ready to use it to segue into other programming
languages and maybe even start working on your own Raspberry Pi or Arduino based hardware projects.
So hopefully that's convince you that Python is worth learning in the next video.
We'll see how to get started with a Python script.